Welcome back.
Let's finish off our types.
And remember there's a few others but you can take a look at the documentation for you.
I've shown you the types that you're going to use 90 percent of the time.
So these last wants function and class.
Let's take a look at function and a function can be quite similar to what we've already done.
Right.
Let's say that this fight robot army now and let's call it fight robot army three so that it doesn't
complain that it's the same variable.
We can say that the way you declare the functions is while we have the robot army but also that the
function returns void because we're not returning anything.
And we've seen this before.
So if we do the same thing for the above we can scroll down fight robot army for and once again I know
this is getting along but let's make this a little bit smaller.
This again would return void if they have returned let's say a number let's say sonar return five.
We get a sad number here and it looks like everything worked out well.
And this is when you start to see that.
All right.
It's getting a little bit confusing with typescript adding all these types you kind of lose track of
what is going on in a function.
And if you are not comfortable with typescript it's really hard to be like I have no idea what this
function is doing what the parameters are doing.
And that's one of the drawbacks with typescript.
It's an extra layer of complexity that your apps now have.
That's pretty easy.
We're pretty comfortable with functions.
So let's talk about the last one which is class or classes.
Let's say that I had an Animal class and this animal class will have a sing property that is a string.
And let's also have a constructor that has a sound of string
and we can say that this starts.
And we're just using class syntax here is going to equal sound.
And let's just say that singing is going to be la la la la.
Now we'll also have a function or a method called grete and this grete method is going to let me scroll
down here so we can see better is going to return.
A template string Hello plus or we don't need that plus we can just say hello and do allow the this
dot sync
is closed off with the back deck.
All right.
So now if I go to one now if I go let Lion be a new animal that takes in the sound of let's say rar.
I think that's how lions go and I save this school over here.
All right.
We're not getting any errors which is great.
And let's run a lion dot sing or lion dot grete.
And if I run this no errors and I do greet I should have the hello.
La la la la la.
From there just to test that for fun.
I'm going to go to my jazz file scroll all the way down and just console log my lion greet for me to
save let's close that compiler for now and run our notes script and we see Hello.
Roger with our compiled Javascript code.
All right let's go back to our top secret file.
So this is working but here's the interesting part.
What if I do sing
or sing is a property so just grab the property.
We see that we're able to grab the property from here.
All right.
But the cool thing you can do in typescript is I can set this to private and if I said this to private
and Icesave I get an error.
I'm trying to access a private variable that I shouldn't have access to.
Very very cool.
By the way by default this is set to public as you can see here.
Again nothing too crazy.
We have a good idea of our types.
If I do greet and it's going to return a string or a string and I save that also works as well.
So we should feel pretty comfortable with classes as well.
All right.
That was a lot we see here that we wrote a lot of typescript and it's all compiled into a little bit
of a messy code on Javascript but we don't need to worry because typescript makes sure that we output
code that works.
I'll see in the next one.
Buh-Bye.